Providing Destination IPs for Internal or VPN-Based Integrations in Kubernetes
When an external partner or internal team requests “the destination IP for a given endpoint or application”, this guide explains how to identify, expose, and securely share the correct internal endpoint, 
especially when your service is hosted in a Kubernetes cluster (e.g., EKS).

1. Understanding the Context
When teams establish SFTP or API connectivity over a VPN, they often ask for Destination IP
This IP must be reachable over the private network or VPN, not over the public internet.

2. Expose the Service Internally
If the service currently uses a ClusterIP type and needs to be reachable via VPN, create an internal LoadBalancer service (you can still keep the existing ClusterIP for internal cluster use):

apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: backend-internal
  namespace: app
  annotations:
    service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-internal: "true"  # internal ALB
spec:
  type: LoadBalancer
  selector:
    app: backend 
  ports:
    - port: 3000        
      targetPort: 3000  (Same as Container port)

This configuration creates a private load balancer (for example, an AWS Network Load Balancer) inside your VPC.

It will output something like:

Internal DNS: internal-backend-xxxx.elb.region.amazonaws.com
Internal IP: 10.x.x.x
Port: 3000

3. Update Security Groups
Allow inbound traffic only from trusted VPN or internal CIDRs.

Example:

aws ec2 authorize-security-group-ingress \
  --group-id sg-xxxxxxxx \
  --protocol tcp \
  --port 3000 \
  --cidr 10.x.x.x/16

This rule allows traffic from the internal or VPN network to access your service through the private Load Balancer.

Now — when someone from outside with within this cidr connects over VPN →
Traffic passes through the VPN tunnel →
Enters VPC (10.50.x.x range) →
Security Group allows →
Load Balancer → Pod.

This ensures only the partner or internal network can reach your service.

4. Information to Share
When responding to a request like:

“Please confirm the destination IP for this endpoint.”

You should provide:
Internal DNS: internal-app-xxxx.elb.private-region.amazonaws.com
Private IP: 10.x.x.x
Accessible via: VPN (10.x.x.x/16)
Security Group: Configured to allow required internal CIDRs

5. Key Concepts to Remember
ClusterIP	Internal-only — not reachable externally
Internal Load Balancer	Used for VPN or private interconnects
Routing Tables	Must include both subnet ranges
Security Groups	Act as virtual firewalls; only allow trusted sources
DNS Resolution	Internal DNS resolves to private IPs, external DNS to public IPs

